---
title: Introduction
description: A brief introduction to Deployer
extends: _layouts.documentation
section: content
---

<div class="bg-yellow-500 p-4 rounded shadow">
    <h1 class="text-xl text-center">Disclaimer</h1>
    <div class="text-sm">
        <p>
            Deployer is being developed and is in <b>alpha</b>. Changes and bugs are expected. For that reason, deployer
            list all the changes which is going to be deployed before start the process and let you 15 seconds to check over
            the changes.
        </p>
        <p>
            If you see a bug or an unexpected behaviour, please fill an issue on the <a href="https://github.com/jurios/deployer">Deployer repository</a>.
        </p>
        <p>
            Sorry for the inconvenience.
        </p>
    </div>
</div>

# Introduction
Deployer is an unattended script which compares the project in production and the current version in order to 
list the files changed (that means: new files, modified files and removed files) and upload/remove 
them in the production environment using SFTP or FTP (at this moment, SFTP and FTP are provided but more protocols 
can be added easily).

It uses `git` (your project must be included in a Git repository) to compare the versions. And parses the `composer.lock` 
file in order to know which composer packages required by the project are new/updated/removed.

How `deployer` knows the production version is through the `BUILD` file which is generated in production once 
the deployer finishes a deployment. This file contains the last commit reference. So, next time you deploy the project,
deployer is going to download the `BUILD` file in order to know the last commit deployed.

If deployer can't download the `BUILD` file, deployer is going to deploy all files as it understands is the first deploy.

There are ways to change this behaviour in case you need it. We'll see this later.

# Features

* Uses `git diff` in order to deploy only changed files (instead of deploy all files every deploy)
* Uses a `composer.lock` parser to know which dependencies has been added/modified/deleted in order to deploy the
changes in de `vendor` folder (instead of deploy all vendor files).
* Define rules for include files in the deployment even if they hasn't been changed or not tracked
* Define rules for ignore files in the deployment even if they has been changed
* Define rules for trigger files deployment when other files has been changed (like compiled or autogenerated files)

